[Music]
Henry! Henry Aldrich!
Coming, mother!
The Aldrich family. A special rebroadcast for you soldiers, sailors, and Marines of the United Nations.
[Music]
A teenage boy has his own way of looking at the world.
To Henry Aldrich, things always look rosy, and then suddenly, spots begin to appear before his eyes.
trouble spots. The scene opens at a neighbor's front door.
Can we want you to please listen to me? Don't you realize if we stopped here we
may be late to school? Homer this is the last house we're going to stop it I
promised you and we've got our bicycles haven't we? Well good morning boys. Good
morning Mrs. Jones we're here. Yes? Don't you remember Mrs. Jones? You told me
yesterday you look in your basement for some waste paper. Oh yes Henry of
Of course. Only my husband forgot all about it.
He did.
Now, just what is it you want us to get ready for you?
She was the government can use anything.
Bags, boxes, newspapers, how about who clothes?
Oh clothes?
Homer, what would you think?
Well, would you think old clothes would come
under the jurisdiction of waste paper?
I have but if you could use them.
Oh, well look.
Suppose we let you know later in the day
about the old clothes part.
All right, sure, goodbye.
And Mrs. Jones, if you have any funny papers,
Have your husband put those sort of to one side.
Oh, the government doesn't pay for use of it.
Right.
The government will get them all right.
I just want to sort them out first.
All right.
Hey, Homer, hurry up and get your bicycle.
Come on.
What class do we have first this morning, Henry?
Algebra.
Well, Gee, I don't mind being a couple of minutes late to that.
Hey, Homer, wait!
What's the matter?
Can't you see what's happened to me?
The couple of my trousers caught my wheels' pocket.
She was, Henry.
How did you do that?
Push your right leg around real slow, Henry, and then reverse.
You want me to break my leg?
I've got you, Henry. I've got you.
Now, get off very slow.
Well, wait.
Which side do you think I ought to try?
You can only swing one leg.
Henry, use your head.
Easy, Homer.
Do you want me to try these good trousers?
Look, stay in there one leg a second while I turn this pocket.
Okay. Easy now.
It wasn't getting full of grease.
Hurry up and turn it.
I can. I can't. The darn thing is stuck.
Well, turn it backwards.
She was, I'm standing all twisted on one foot.
And we're going to be late for school.
Look, Henry, let's be sensible.
Let's just lay the bicycle down on its side, and you sort of lie down on top of it.
Right in the middle of the street?
Well, alright.
But easy, Homer, easy.
I'm laying it down easy.
Wait, chief!
Hey, look out!
Can we get up?
I can't.
Let go of my necktie.
Homer's that important look at me.
Look at me!
Why?
Look at the back of my trousers, they're practically ripped all the way up the middle!
[screaming]
[SIREN WAILING]
Mary, yes, mother?
Have you been up in Henry's room?
No, I haven't.
Not since he left the school, mother.
Oh, my goodness.
I wonder what became of Henry's good trousers.
He asked me before breakfast to mend a small hole in them,
and I told him I wouldn't, and I forgot all about it.
Well, it certainly is naving to worry about, mother.
I know, dear, but I did promise Henry.
I'd fixed it before he left the school,
and you know how careful he is of his appearance.
All right, to the phone, mother.
Hello.
Who is this?
I asked you first.
This is Mary Aldrich.
May I ask who this is?
Look, is anybody home?
What's that?
I mean, Henry's mother has gone out hasn't she?
No, she hasn't.
Mother, it's for you.
But wait, anyway.
Who is this here?
I don't know.
It sounds as though it might be the butcher.
Really?
Maybe he finally has a roast for us.
Hello?
Don't tell me you really have some meat for us.
What's that?
Is it a rib?
How did you know?
You know.
This app gets a wrong number.
Hello?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm sorry to catch you waiting, Homer.
Won't you step inside the house so you don't get cold?
No thanks, Mr. Smith.
I'm late for school as it is.
Did you find the needle in thread?
Well, Homer, Mr. Smith isn't here right now, and I looked all over the house and found
this symbol, but I'll be dog gone if I can find any needle and thread.
But she was house handling kind of war.
Where is Henry?
Right over there on that lawn behind that bush.
We had the accident in front of it, and I dragged him around behind it.
And boy, I'm coming, Henry.
Mr. Smith was nice enough to find a symbol for us.
Well, come here, quit.
OK, and thanks very much, Mr. Smith.
OK, I just had an idea.
Did you have any paper clips?
Any why?
Paper clips.
Look, I found one in my pocket, and I fixed my pants up as far as the back of my knee.
But from there on, see, paper clips will let's see.
Oh boy, if my folks hear about this,
I was trying to talk my father in the binie
and no suit at breakfast.
And you'll say I did this on purpose.
Here's a clip, Henry.
You got one?
Sure, I've got two.
I forgot I used them for cufflinks.
Turn around, Henry, and I'll clip you together.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hello, Sam.
Are you busy?
Well, Harriet, how are you?
Fine. Sam, you have those papers you want inside.
All right.
And Sam, it isn't any of my business. I'm only Henry's aunt.
But may I ask why you and Alice don't buy Henry some new clothes?
But, sir?
I just saw him on the way to school, Sam.
And frankly, I was just a bit amazed.
Amazed at what?
But the way he looked.
Do you always let him go to school looking like that?
What do you mean? I had breakfast with him.
He looked all right then.
Well, did you take a good look at him?
Or did you just fit that read in the paper the way you usually do?
Why, I thought I looked at him, Harriet.
Henry didn't buy any chance to ask you to come in here and talk me into buying him a new suit today.
Sam, I haven't been near him.
- But you said you just seen him. - I did.
But I was with Mrs. Johnson, the minister's wife, and I just pretended I didn't even know him.
[
Come to order please.
Order!
After class Henry, I'll try to get you some big paper clips.
From the ground, did you come in here to visit with Henry Audrich
or to learn something about algebra?
So learn something about algebra in this other one.
And please turn around and face me.
I'd like to explain to all of you,
especially to those who've been asking me whether you passed in yesterday's exam,
that I hadn't had time to correct the paper yet.
Now then, before we begin,
You all know that this school is conducting a campaign to collect waste paper for the government.
Consequently, I'm going to call one of our most active collectors who will explain just
what and why we are supposed to do it.
Henry oldish, I'll turn the class over to you.
Clean us up, old and... That's right.
And incidentally, I think you should all know that only yesterday Henry spent all afternoon
leaning out all the old papers that had accumulated in this classroom.
Now Henry, begin.
Well, the government, Henry, wouldn't you like to stand, please?
Oh, why, I tell you, if I can just stay seated, Miss Shubblin', I can keep my mind bell on my...
The government!
Just a day, even though this is not an easy class,
I think we should all learn to talk on our feet.
Will you please stand?
Yes, ma'am.
Well, the government makes shelf containers out of paper,
and they make food containers, and stuff for other things,
And they also when they do have to lean against your desk like that
Wow, you haven't anything to be ashamed of just stand right up
Take your hands behind your back. Yes, ma'am
In fact, why don't you come down here in front of the class where we can all sue you and explain matters now?
Remember you have a very important message
Just off a paper clip
- He is.
(audience laughs)
- Did I just pick it up?
- Oh well, I'll tell you.
- No.
Why should I put another just to pick up a paper clip?
- I'll get it for him, Ms. Sutherland.
- Henry, may I ask why you're sitting down again?
- For me?
- Oh, I thought I'd explain everything.
- But you haven't said anything.
- Oh, well.
- Crap, could you let me say something to you alone?
Henry, there's no excuse for any such display of shine.
- But I want to whisper something in your ear.
(audience laughs)
- It's serious, Ms. Sutherland, you better go to one.
[Music]
Mother! Yes Mary? Mother! All the brownies are in the song!
And what's the next something? What does he want here?
Well first I thought it was that mysterious voice again but it wasn't.
He says he's fighting from the high school. Well the year what does he want?
He sounds awfully excited and the only thing I can make out is that they're having some kind of drive or something
They want to know whether we'd like to bring some clothes over.
- Clothes? - Yes, Mother.
It has nothing to do with Henry.
I guess he's helping him in the drive.
And it's very urgent.
We'll be a go back to the phone and tell Home,
but we're very much interested,
but neither one of us can take anything over today.
- Yes, Mother. - Later in the week, perhaps we can get a bundle over.
All right. And time to tell Henry not to be so impatient.
He knows very well how busy I am.
- Yes, Mother. - Hello.
- Well, you too, tell Homey we'd be very glad to cooperate,
but we're too busy to do anything today.
- What's that? - Goodbye. It's up to go.
- What way? What age?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Homer, won't you please come along the corridor with me
and just walk behind me.
Henry, I have to go to chemistry.
And she listed my phone in the house for you.
Sure.
And what good did it do?
You didn't mention the fact that this was my best suit.
I'd go and did jump.
Henry, when I got two, your sister
didn't even know what I'd been talking about.
And listen, I'm kind of girl.
But can't you just call me until I get down to the faculty room?
What are you going down there for?
Miss Sutherland told me to.
She's gone to the girl's sewing room to get a needle and thread,
and I'm the wait in the faculty room.
Now come on, get behind me.
Nobody's gonna see you.
Hand me to there's anybody in the corridor.
And I'm gonna be the longest to do so, Mr. Nell.
But she wins!
Come on, man.
Oh, what's up?
Oh, come on, Miss Shea.
May I ask why you find it necessary to walk down this whole sideways
with your back against the wall?
Oh, I tell ya.
I was just looking at those paintings on the other wall over there.
I wanted it.
Very nice.
Don't you have a class this period?
Yes.
But Mr. Sutterland didn't think I would go to it in my present condition.
You have a headache?
Well, no.
No, it's not exactly up there.
Hello, Samuel always speaking.
Sam, this is Harriet again.
Yes, Harriet?
Sam, I don't want a man to think that it's my business, but did you see this morning's paper?
Yes? What is it? Something about me?
No, it's an ad for boy and suits.
Now Harriet, I am not buying Henry in his suit.
If you're going to brood about that, I'm sorry, but the one he has is quite good enough.
Sam, that's all, Sam. Good night.
But Harriet, why take it that way?
Hello?
That's a fine thing.
Hello, Harriet.
Hello, hey, this is George.
It is? Who is this?
And if it's Mrs. Jones, it's George.
I beg your pardon?
And Mrs Jones, over on Maple Street.
When Henry stopped at my house on his way to school this morning,
I asked him whether he could use a couple of old suits of Mr Jones.
- What's that? - And I have the mighty end of the door, Rich.
The only thing is, I'm going out now,
and I've wondered if Henry could come over this evening and get them.
- Mr Jones, did Henry ask you for those suits?
- No. He just occurred to me when I saw him this morning,
but he might be able to use them.
- For Mrs Jones, Henry will not have any use for those suits.
And I don't see why you should jump to the conclusion that--
- I've been no fun. - That's nothing I appreciate your calling, Mrs Jones.
Jones but so far as I'm concerned Henry looks quite all right and what he has.
Oh I beg your pardon.
Excuse me Mr. Bralley but I'm it but am I in your way at all?
Henry may I ask what you're doing here in the faculty room?
Miss Sutherland said I didn't have to go to class.
She said I... here's what happened.
Yes?
I'm on the waste paper committee singing and this morning I was collecting
Henry, collecting waste paper is important, but you have plenty of time after school to worry about a thing like that.
And there is no waste paper here in the faculty room.
Yes, Mr. Bradley.
Now, would you mind leading me alone in here, please?
Yes, Mr. Bradley. But the only thing is...
Henry, I'd like to be alone.
Yes, sir. I'll go.
Hello, Mr. Bradley.
Mr. Bradley, home but round. It's here in the main office. He says he's supposed to see you.
Home of Brown. What about?
Well, he was late to chemistry again, and Mr. Nelson told him to come in here.
Miss Shea, I can't see him now.
Tell him to come back to the office at three o'clock.
Yes, Mr. Baddie.
And if anyone wants me, I'm not to be disturbed.
Goodbye.
Uh, who's there? Come in.
It's Miss Dublin. I won't come all the way in.
Are you all right in there?
What's there?
Just take all your towels, but please, and hand them to me.
I'm in a house.
What's there?
[Music]
We'll be back with the Aldrich family in just a moment.
Right now it's intermission and time for our intermission guest, the one and only Tommy Dorsen.
Okay Tommy.
(dramatic music)
(roaring)
(audience applauding)
[Applause]
[Music]
Now getting back to the troubles of Henry Aldrich.
As the result of a bicycle accident,
Henry has had to go to school with his trousers ripped most of the way up the back.
The scene opens in the Aldrich front hall.
Henry says to Mary is speaking.
Just a minute now, tell my mother you're here.
Okay, sure.
Mother! There's a man at the front door who says Henry asked him to come and give an estimate on some waste paper that he's collected.
Mary, I had no condition to talk to anyone about waste paper.
Mother Henry's going to give her money to the Red Cross, and don't you think one of us thought of taking down at the basement and letting see the paper?
I don't know. I just had the most embarrassing thing happen.
What do you think?
As long as I live, I'll never get over it.
Mother said what's happened?
I just had a phone call from Mrs. Smith.
Yes.
And what do you think she said?
She apologized, Mary, for not being in this morning.
When Henry stopped to borrow a needle and spread to fix his trousers.
Henry, what? She said all her husband was able to give in was a symbol.
And by the time he'd gotten there that little hole, I'd forgotten to fix it apparently ripped right down the scene.
And he was in such an awful condition he had to wrap himself in Homer's windbreaker.
Oh my goodness, in public! Oh, then what would people say?
I'm going to die, Mary, I'm just going to die. It's going to go all the time, it was all my fault.
[Music]
Listen, Henry, what are you doing here in this math room?
Homer, I came in here because I got put out of the faculty room.
What's the reason any classes, you know?
Have you seen Ms. Sutherland?
You mean she hasn't sold you up yet?
No.
Well, do you suppose we could do anything with glue?
With glue?
Sure, maybe some quick drying stuff.
Henry, old rich man, I asked where you've been.
Oh, hello Miss Sutherland.
Henry, if I'm willing to try to help you,
it seems to me the least you can do is cooperate
and wait until I... well, I tend to see you.
But Miss Sutherland, I tried to.
Are you ready to go to work on me?
I was ready.
I was already to show you, and then something happens
when I knocked on the door of the faculty room and I...
Well, I dropped the needle and thread,
and I certainly had no time left to go back and get enough.
Oh, do you think I could go back and find it for you in the Sutherland?
If I were you, hold on, I wouldn't go near the faculty room.
And Henry.
May I ask...
May I ask you...
Are you looking for something with Sutherland?
Yes, I'm trying to find yesterday's examination paper so that I can correct it.
Oh, were they in this room?
Yes, did you see them when you're seeing the place out yesterday?
You mean...
Oh, what's that?
Yes, they didn't you ask me whether they weren't some stats of old papers in this classroom that you could have?
Yes, ma'am, I got them.
I helped them.
Sure, you said you wanted them out of your way.
That may be true, but did you realize that you carried off the exam paper?
What's that?
She was using the papers the whole class to just hand it out.
I do.
Henry, how did you happen to do a thing like that?
And Henry, I couldn't help you now if I had to.
I've got to go down to the office and have a brand new set of questions, Ty.
You mean we have to take these damn over, Ms. Sutherland?
I do.
And I shall explain to the class who's called it is.
Oh boy!
Henry, all this is that you in there?
Why, Ms. Shae?
Are you looking for me?
I've been looking all over for you.
Here's a bundle, your sister left for you.
A bundle?
She said she had time to bring it over after all.
Oh, my look, I'm all fixed!
Can't you come here and get it?
I'll take it to a mache. He's sort of saving himself.
And thank you very much, mache.
That's quite all right.
Homer, didn't I tell you my mother would come to the rescue?
Do you realize, Henry, that I got every question right in that exam yesterday?
No, I have to take the whole darn thing over.
Homer, which is more important.
And algebra exam, or the fact that I at least have some pants to take it in.
Listen, Homer.
Now what's the matter?
Did mache say...
Homer, look at what my mother said to me.
What?
A skirt.
And a step night down.
What's that?
How about you, Hope?
Listen Homer, didn't you mention pants?
Really? Is that all you could possibly pay my brother for all these papers here in this basement?
That's all lady.
Even when he's giving the money to the Red Cross?
Well, I'm helping Red Cross too lady.
But look at the quality of this paper. Look at these examination papers.
My goodness, that isn't just ordinary.
Oddly, you don't find paper like that just any play.
That's all I can give you.
All right, you can have it.
The government certainly needs it.
Sure, lady.
I can have it.
Yes, sir.
Mary, are you down, seller?
Yes, Father.
I'm just coming up.
Are you home already?
I am.
Where's your mother?
She's upstairs lying down, I think.
She had some awful news come this afternoon.
She got a terrible headache.
What happened?
I'm right here, Sam.
What is it you want?
That is what happened that gave you a headache.
Sam, I'd rather not go into it.
Since we're about Henry.
Now, Alice, if you're going to start talking
about Henry's appearance, I'd first
like to explain something.
Sam, have you heard about it?
Yes, it seems to be all over town.
Well, before you say anything more, I think you should know I do have a great many things on my mind running a house this side.
And it's very unfair of you to put the blame on me.
Alice, when did I do anything like that?
You're certainly just insinuated.
Alice, all I'm asking is why you ever let the boy go out like that.
I'm reasonable, Alice. I'm reasonable. You don't have to force me into something.
Sir, Margaret, you mean you think I did it on purpose?
Well, Alice, after all, when Alice, where are you going?
Back to bed!
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now, hold still, Henry.
Hold still.
Why don't you want me to help you?
I'm holding still, Homer.
I was just trying to see how far you'd sold me.
Well, I still.
I'll let you know when I finish you.
Oh, the only thing is, did you ever
try lying on a desk that has a railing around the top of it?
And boy, when I get home this afternoon,
But you know why that's gonna happen?
Why?
I bet my father will cut off my allowance for all the rest of this year.
She was, you will?
Has he ever done anything like that, Henry?
I never had a thing like this happen before.
And she...
My mother, she won't even speak to me.
Henry, do you want to get jabbed with this needle?
Why don't you let me turn around a little and why?
Now listen, Homer, what's the matter?
Why are you sawing me with?
Just a needle and thread.
Where'd you get that, Neel?
It's three inches long.
I got it down in the gym.
They use it for lacing footballs.
And look at that thread!
What's the matter with it? It's a little bit strong.
It's wrong. But she wears.
Now, there you can get up.
It's a very good job, Henry.
But Homer, look at the size of the stitches you saw.
I had to draw the cloth together, didn't I?
Didn't you ever see anybody mend a sale?
Oh, boy. You least opposed that is.
Is Overton there? Is who in here?
Homer, did he say Overton?
Hey, that's it! What did you want?
We want you, Overton!
The algebra class is out here. What did you do in our exam paper?
I will well listen, fellas, I can explain everything!
Throwin' nothing over that door, let us in!
What's the government needs, wait, paper fellas?
Then do you realize how many targets I can make with a hundred pounds of...
...a lot of examination papers?
Over that door!
Can you list throughout the window?
Oh, my, we're on the second floor!
Hey, over that door!
Now listen, fellas, I represent the government!
[Music]
Hello?
Hello, is Henry Oldwich there?
No, he isn't. Who is this?
This is Homer Brown.
Oh my goodness, Homer, do you know where Henry is?
We've waited dinner and waited dinner and we haven't heard one word from instant school let out.
Oh, I'll tell you, Mary. He's coming home.
Where has he been?
He's coming home.
He's nice and dark and the sun is down and no one can see him.
Oh.
Then I just thought you would ask your mother and father not to jump on him too much.
You really wasn't his fault.
I was there all the time, Mary.
What happened?
They finally got the door unlocked,
so you only got in and because of the exams, they ruined them.
Oh, well, you tell me what happened.
Somebody got hold of the end of the rawhide.
I'm Paul.
What's that?
Never mind.
When you see him, you'll understand.
Mary, but Holler.
Hi!
Mary, just hollering about Henry.
Yes, Mother, but my goodness, that hollabrow.
He's just getting crazier and crazier.
Henry, is that you?
Oh, gee, where?
Henry, old Richard, will you please come here?
Yes, Mother.
And boy, I know exactly what you're going to say.
See, why didn't you come home before?
I've been waiting for it to get dark, Mother.
You mean you were so ashamed of your appearance?
Well, I'll tell you.
Now, dear, don't try to tell me anything.
Just sit down, Henry, and make yourself comfortable.
What's that?
For a cheers, white horse.
You might come hot too before I get you a nice plate of chicken beer.
You mean Henry, I just wanna say this.
I've never felt so bad about anything in all my life.
But mother, won't you love me explain?
You don't have to be doing things like this will never happen again.
If won't, you mean you're gonna take my bicycle away?
You're like goodness, Henry. I guess you don't realize how sorry mother feels about it.
She does. There's one consolation though.
You've certainly done your share in collecting waste paper.
You think I have marriage?
My goodness, I think you deserve some kind of decoration.
Dear, are you catching cold?
Well, I've sort of had a draft up my leg all day.
[LAUGHTER]
Alice, is that Henry?
Yes, Sam.
Oh, boy.
The mother-- will you try to tell him I--
my side of it?
We all know all about it.
And tomorrow we're going down to the Emporium
and by you a new suit.
We are?
Yes, sir.
And I want you to know I should never
have let a thing like this happen.
Now, Sam, it wasn't really your fault.
It was partly my fault.
Now, Alice, the whole thing was my fault.
What was?
By the way, Henry, did you get my night down?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(audience applauding)
(crowd laughing)
(dramatic music)
(upbeat music)
(laughing)
(dramatic music)
(whimpering)
[Music]
This re-broadcast of the Alberts family is the presentation of the Armed Forces Radio Service.
(dramatic music)
[Music]
(applause)